
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74135 ***





  MY EXPERIENCES WHILE
  OUT OF MY BODY




  MY EXPERIENCES WHILE
  OUT OF MY BODY

  AND

  My Return After Many Days

  BY
  REV. CORA L. V. RICHMOND

  [Illustration]




  _Copyright, 1915_
  BY REV. CORA L. V. RICHMOND

  Christopher Press
  Boston




DEDICATION


PRIMARILY TO MY HEAVENLY GUIDES:

Those Teachers and Inspirers who, in early childhood, awakened and have
unfolded the Spiritual gifts that were mine, and have borne forward to
the present hour the work appointed me to do; and


TO THOSE BELOVED FRIENDS

who, having received the ministration through my humble instrumentality
have constantly given from hearts and hands the sympathy and aid
needed to perform that work--and during the feebleness of the body
have sent strength and succor; and _especially_ to the beloved and
loving friends: DR. CHAS. H. BUSHNELL, whose skill, healing power and
faithful attendance were given without stint or measure and _most
lovingly_, SARAH J. ASHTON, co-worker for more than a quarter of a
century, Assistant Pastor of my Congregation and, above all else,
_faithful, devoted friend_, without whose unfailing care and constant
helpfulness for long months my spirit could not have returned to its
human habitation to take up its assigned work,

This imperfect record of experiences is most _lovingly_ and
_gratefully_ inscribed.

                                                    CORA L. V. RICHMOND.




  MY EXPERIENCES WHILE OUT OF MY
  BODY AND MY RETURN--AFTER
  MANY DAYS

  _by_

  REV. CORA L. V. RICHMOND


THE RELEASE

It was true then: I was suddenly and finally released from my body;
“this time,” I said, or thought: “I will not have to return.”

Many times, almost numberless, I had experienced the wonderful
consciousness of being absent from my human form, of mingling with
arisen friends in their higher state of existence, but, until this time
I had always known that it was only for a brief season and that there
was a tie--a vital and psychic tie--binding me to return to my earth
form. But _now; now_; could it be true? Was I set free to live and work
with the Beloved--the dear ones--in this their higher, more perfect
state?

The Best Beloved, those who had preceded me into this wondrous life,
came thronging around, by degrees, to welcome me: not all at once, but
first those who were by tenderest ties the nearest and the dearest.

They did not answer my question: “Have I really come to stay”?

The Guide--the Guardian, took me gently in charge that I might not even
think of the form I had so lately left. A great sense of relief; of
being set free from the limitations of the body, filled me, far greater
than I had ever experienced before. A feeling pervaded me that _all of
me_ was released. It surely _seemed_ that my work in the human body was
done: that the last word was spoken, the last pen-stroke made.

O, the wonder, the unspeakable joy of thus being united with the
Beloved--those whom I knew had never died, but had thrown off their
garments of dust for the more beautiful raiment of the spirit!

In a narrative written for others to read one cannot dwell minutely on
the sacred meetings with those who were ever nearest and dearest; those
of the household, related by ties of consanguinity and those who were
kindred in spirit, united to one in thought and aspiration. All that
such reunion means, more than can be dreamed or imagined where one is
in the human state, was now my possession.

“Turn away, turn away from all thought of the Earth-form;” said the one
appointed to lead and guide me in this newer, grander flight.

One by one--or in groups--the dear ones of the Earth-home joined us,
welcoming me ever, yet ever evading the oft recurring question, “Am I
really here to stay?”

My attention was continually attracted to some group or company that
had not been seen by me--always a surprise to find them “_all there_.”
They would smile and seem to answer, “Yes, all here, in our own
particular states, and doing our own appointed work.”


THE VASTNESS OF THE SPIRIT REALM

There was a perception of great _Light_, a consciousness of
Illumination, an awakening to the _vastness_, the _unlimitation_ of
this Realm of Spirit.

O how often, when in “dreams” or “visions” I had been permitted and
aided by my Guides to visit the Spirit States, this inner and higher
Realm, I had longed to remain! But ever willing to answer the call of
duty, of added work to be performed by me, I would return to fill my
place at the appointed time. NOW; NOW?--

All else was swallowed up--eclipsed by the wonderful experiences that
came--the Beloved Presences--the vistas of luminous Spirits! This
was a state of _Super_-Consciousness; the awakening of faculties
and perceptions before unknown, of _being aware_, almost without
limitation: of KNOWING. Whatever _is_ the nature and state of the _real
Ego_ this seemed as near to the _Absolute_ as one could well conceive!
There was so _much_ of me! There was so _little_ of me! There were so
many and such surpassing Spirits! How one shrinks in the presence of
the mighty ones! How one expands in the Knowledge of the Infinite: His
Image!

Often in approaching a transcendent Light there would appear an
atmosphere of ensphering tints--there would also seem to be a sphere
of sound, of surpassing music. On being admitted to that sphere it
would prove to be a group of spirits who thus in accord _are Light_
and _Harmony_. Where one can enter such an “atmosphere” communing with
such a group it is because one has _need_ of and is in harmony with the
spirits of that group.


SENSES MERGED IN PERCEPTION

Objective scenes seemed ever to be _adaptations_ to my state, and would
often vanish as I became aware of the minds or spirits suggested by the
scenes.

“All human sensations, as sight and hearing, are readily perceived
by one awakening to spiritual states to be but _manifestations of
consciousness through the physical limitations_ to which the spirit in
its mental states of earth becomes accustomed. But _here_ all is merged
in _perception_--where one _perceives_ and _understands_,” thus said
the Guide.

This added consciousness--uniting or releasing the faculties--is not
all at once: I found myself thinking in the accustomed channels, in
_words_ as well as thoughts, _listening_ for replies instead of knowing
that the answer had been _thought_ to me, really was there before I had
questioned; of _looking_ for beautiful _forms_ and scenes instead of
_perceiving_ the _Soul of Beauty_ which was (is) everywhere.

I became more and more aware that the whole of me, released from the
fetters of the bodily senses, could perceive and receive more perfectly
the answer to every question, even before its formulation in thought.

“Formulation is a process of limitation, sometimes of hindrance,” said
the Guide. “A feeble comparison of what ‘perception’ really is may be
found in an artist (of Earth) whose _prepared mind_ (and therefore
vision) sees the beauty in a landscape, a sunset sky that another sees
not at all, or dimly. Prepared senses are the result of prepared minds,
of being pervaded by the _awareness_ of the Spirit,” said the Presence.

It is of little avail, however, to attempt to bring into outward forms
of thought and expression the _perceptions_ one is aware of while
one is in that inner state, excepting that they relate to conditions
under which those loved and loving ones in that state can reach and
change for the better the sorrowing hearts in human life, the shadowed
conditions of earth existence.


THE BODY IN CHARGE OF GUARDIANS

After a time (I did not know it as _time_) I became aware of being led
to where the earthly form was still breathing, being cared for and
imbued with breath by a beloved Guardian spirit and by devoted friends
in human life. I was to return after all! It was necessary to keep
my spirit _en rapport_ with the body as the _Psychic Cord_ was _not_
severed that connected body and spirit. But not at once was I to return.

These periods of calling my attention to and visiting the body were
brief--just enough to keep the “vital spark” alive, and aid the dear
attendants in both worlds to prevent the complete separation which for
many days seemed imminent.


A VAST CONGREGATION

It is well known to those who may be interested in reading these pages
that during all the years of my mortal life (since the age of eleven)
I have been brought before audiences and assemblies of people--many
thousands; among them were hundreds who became friends--some of them
life-long, some of later years. I had known of the “passing on” of very
many who had been members of those audiences and of my own “Flock,” but
I was not prepared for the _vast congregation_ that came out of their
respective groups composing a still greater concourse to meet me, nor
was I prepared to realize that I knew most of them as friends on Earth!

There were those who had heard the utterances of my Guides through my
lips when I was a child; those who had attended and were my personal
friends when I was “still in my ’teens”; and those who in later years
had been of the audiences in many places; and those of my own beloved
Congregation!

How difficult to realize that they were all gathered into the larger
“Congregation of the skies.” Each and all unfolding, working in
whatever line of knowledge and work was theirs to attain and achieve!
And to find all the treasured jewels of friendship more bright in the
added lustre of the larger life; the flowers in the Garden of true
Affection growing more and more transcendently fair!

This is indeed Heaven! Next in blessedness to the Homes of the Best
Beloved which are the very _Kingdom of Heaven_!


MINISTRATIONS OF SPIRITS

It was wonderful to note the ministrations of spirits to those in
other less fortunate states--especially to those in Earthly forms.
Wherever the ties of consanguinity were also of real affection the
spirit guardians of the household responded to the “call,” perhaps only
a thought, a longing, or a silent prayer for aid and strength, or a
_need_ unknown to the one ministered unto.

Time is not a factor on the spirit side, the response to a need--an
aspiration, a prayer is instantaneous. Where there seems to be delay,
and often doubt in the minds of those on Earth as to the presence and
ministration of the loved one who has been summoned, it is because of
Earthly barriers, because those in the human state cannot perceive--and
many, alas, are not willing to receive the spirit friend. I saw that
the usual barriers are: Uncontrolled, selfish grief--mourning for the
one who has “passed on” and often forgetting the other dear ones of the
household who are left; seeking for the communion to forward a purely
_selfish_ purpose; and, in general, the obstruction of false education,
theological and material, through which the spiritual faculties have
been closed for generations.

When human hands and hearts, even though the latter is wrung by pain,
seek to _help others_ who are in sorrow or need, then the way is opened
and the _helpers_ are helped by the ministering ones.

To mourn the friend as utterly “gone” who has only dropped the
outer garments of the dust is to close, for the time, the avenue of
communication or ministration. Long must the spirit helpers work and
wait for people to be ready to receive their response to the call for
aid. So many did I see who could not reach the recognition of their
loved ones that I wished _over_ and _over_ again _that there were more
real_ “_Message bearers_,” more to give comfort to those that mourn!
And then the Presence answered: “Not all are ready to whom the Messages
now are given, nor are those protected adequately who are the chosen
Instruments for Message bearing, but the seed is being sown and will
take root in thousands of lives.”


THOUGHT-FORMS

I was shown those who existed in the _thought-forms_ and scenes of
their recent human states: Such as these were surrounded with the
“things” (forms of things) familiar to them on Earth, and apparently
necessary to their happiness even in the new state of existence. These
scenes illustrated that our lives even in the human state, consist
largely of “_states of mind_,” that we see the things we are accustomed
to see, or have trained our minds or wishes to see omitting many and
sometimes _most_ of the things of beauty and of import that we _might_
see.

The spirit states that are “exactly like the scenes of Earth” are
composed of the thought-forms of the spirits’ imaging or reproduction,
and _are_ the _reality_ to them. I recalled the weaving of a web that I
had once seen an industrious spider perfect and he was afterward caught
in his own web. I wondered if we are not often in human life--and the
states that immediately follow the weavers of many such “cobwebs”?
These thought-webs seemed to proceed from the minds of the spirits
fashioning them and in which the spirits seemed to be ensphered,
sometimes enshadowed. Before my questionings had _taken form in my
mind_ the answer came from the Presence: “No, they are not enmeshed
_by_ the thought-forms; their creation is the result of the present
_condition_; remove the power to produce thought-forms, _i.e._, to
create ones own environment and you remove all activity of mind. As
the Spirit unfolds the thought-forms change and then disappear as
_perception_ takes the place of limitation by the senses.”

With the almost axiomatic proposition that “our world of life is what
we make it” our spirit-surroundings and conditions the result of our
states of unfoldment, it became less difficult even when returning
to the limitations of human organism to understand the conditions
of existence in the “next stage” of personal experience beyond the
“transition” misnamed “death.”

_Spirit states are as varied as are the personal states of those
composing them; the knowledge--or lack of it--possessed by the person_
IS _the spirit state_, i.e., _knowledge of spiritual principles_.

Oh, if one could coin new words, or new understandings, in order better
to express that which one knows when set free from Earthly environment!
Yes, the _New Understanding_; that is the great need; and that must
really be _attained_ by _unfoldment_, growth from within, the pervading
all illuminating power of the spirit.

Those in the spirit states who were reproducing the familiar scenes
of their recent Earth conditions were satisfied and even very
happy--especially when the scenes so reproduced were of a nature that
had brought comparative happiness in Earth life--in their ability to
make things seem “exactly as they did in Earth life,” not even knowing
that this similitude was the result of their own thought-forms instead
of being _inherent_ or _organic_ in the “spirit land.”

Interesting and absorbing as were these lessons of observing, the
process of weaving their thoughts into the forms most desired or needed
by the spirits producing them, there were many whose reproductions
were of the shadowed kind and were not voluntary, but results of the
deep impress that the shadows of Earth-experiences had made upon their
minds. No _one_ illustration could serve--but all states and conditions
that I could realize were shown.


TIME NOT A FACTOR

_Time_ does not seem to be a factor in the realm of spirits except as
related to people and events in the human state with which spirits have
connection.

It was, however, a source of continual wonder and surprise to note the
changing forms and _atmospheres_ in the surroundings of those with whom
I was brought in contact. I saw spirits who, when in Earth life had
been in positions of external power--usually considered “exalted”--as
of kings or rulers--the result of no “merit” or achievement of their
own, but the “incident” or “accident” of birth, who were arrayed in
their _own thought-robes_ of power, but closer observation would reveal
the poverty and meagerness of their “Robes of Royalty” and they were
sometimes seeking somewhat with which to clothe themselves, something
to _conceal_ their paucity of raiment and surroundings. Most of those,
however, who had held such positions as are the result of “titles,”
“rank” and “castes,” seemed endowed with perception enough to know that
those external conditions are not perpetuated in spirit states, unless
one has become so imbued with the _idea_ that “titles,” “wealth,” and
outward “honors” are _valuable_ in _themselves_. And that the “Divine
Right of Kings” is indeed a “right” derived from Heaven.


THE TRULY GREAT ARE HUMBLE

I saw many of those who had been poor in worldly possessions, even
despised and scorned among men or put to death because of their
advocacy of an unpopular “cause” now radiant in their own spiritual
brightness, unconsciously

  “Wearing their sunbright thoughts
  For Robes of Royalty.”

Ah! How beautiful were they! These of the shining faces and radiant
hearts! Ever intent on trying to aid humanity, whether in shadowed
spirit states or in Earthly conditions.

One may not give the names (even if one knew them) by which these
in the various spirit states were known on Earth. I saw many who
were known to be Great: Great in thoughts, deeds and words for the
enlightenment of their fellow-beings. Ever were they humble, as ever
are the truly _Great_. None in spirit life are outwardly _adorned_ with
the “honors” given to them or their “memory” by a tardy World. The
truly exalted are far too intent on ameliorating the adverse conditions
of spirit and human states to take note of the praise and pomp of
Earthly “celebrations” in “memory” of them, sometimes tardily bestowed.

To be truly Beloved by an individual, a country or a world is indeed
blessed, and exalted souls do know and understand the true meaning of
being “appreciated and beloved.”

The Light of the Shining ones, the Great ones, is not dimmed in the
brightness of the higher spheres, for they are of its light a part.


SPIRIT GROUPS AND INSPIRERS

It is because of the spirit possessions that those of kindred
thoughts, perceptions, aspirations are attracted to each other
and form groups--not conventional or arbitrary--interchanging
ideas--purposes--and working _together_ for others. I saw them
“_moving upon_” the minds of those in Earth-forms whom they could
reach, sometimes singly, sometimes in groups, as the conditions might
require. The Student in his library, the Inventor in his “work shop”
or laboratory, the “Discoverer” in his Observatory searching for new
worlds or on ships of “exploration” sailing for Unknown lands, more
particularly those who are seeking to solve the vexed “problems” of
human life.

Ah! It was indeed a scene of wonder to see each and every spirit thus
intent on doing good to his kind, imparting some needed thought, some
“clue” or “thread” of an intricate proposition that would solve the
whole! Long are these “Inventions” and “discoveries” known in Spirit
states before the one is “born” into human life that can give them
outward Expression. How luminous seemed the Atmospheres of Spirit thus
surrounding those in Earth life when the Heavenly presences were near!
And such lives are always luminous in their own brightness or the
Higher ones could not “draw near” and inspire them.

The people know the names of some of those now on Earth whose
“discoveries,” “inventions,” and works have transformed the world!
Those arisen ones who aid in bearing forward the Works Beautiful,
direct their thoughts to such as are ready in Earth life. Here are the
“Thinkers,” whose knowledge of the Truths of the Universe constitutes
the source of all power, Ideas that born of those Truths reach the
minds prepared to receive them and _move the world_. We saw and paused
among assemblies, groups pursuing their usual course of conferring,
interchanging of ideals and preparing to impart more and more the
knowledge that is theirs--as minds are prepared to receive.

_Knowledge is imparted by adaptation._

All such _imparting_ of _knowledge must be by adaptation_. The Spirit
is attracted--would be from the very nature of the Spirit--to the
one best prepared to receive _from that Spirit_. Thus the subtle law
of imparting knowledge by adaptation governs the realm of spirit and
constitutes the basis of deciding concerning “Guides,” “Guardian
Spirits,” and all “ministering ones.” _Affection_ determines the
intimate personal guardians.


FROM SPIRIT TO SPIRIT

It was most interesting and enlightening to see--as I was permitted
to witness--a number of those who are in human states receiving from
luminous and illuminating spirits some new application of science or
art, some new presentation of Truth! The minds of Earth so impressed
are not narrowly questioning “from whence do the ideas come”? Fearful,
if from another _mind_ that those receiving them may “lose their
Individuality.” Such minds know that Truths belong to _minds_--and that
_somewhere_ are greater minds than one’s own--who can impart knowledge.
_Truth is the common heritage of souls_; of Intelligence; and happy is
the mind, spirit or Angel that can perceive or receive it _from any
source_. Intelligence alone perceives and imparts Intelligence.

The process of imparting knowledge from spirit to spirit (whether those
imparting and receiving are in spirit states or still in Earth-forms),
grows ever more and more interesting as one passes into greater
awakening and perception of the _realities_, the _verities_ of spirit.
“Teaching,” “Education” (in the human sense) only exists in those
states or conditions in the spirit realm where the human methods and
forms of thought still govern the minds of the spirits.

Love is the great Illuminator in all realms and worlds, and thus
_adaptation_ of Teacher and the one to be taught _must_ be the keynote
to all reception of knowledge.

One would like to say so much while comparing the “Educational” process
of spirit states with the methods of Earth (excellent as some of the
latter have become); but one must hasten to record added experiences
while they are near to the outward consciousness from within. For when
one enters again into the daily life of Earth, even although it is ever
pervaded by those surpassing scenes, the vividness of the higher state
becomes dimmed by the necessary veiling that human conditions bring.


THERE IS AN ANSWER FOR EVERY QUESTION

Everything that I _wished to know_ found ready answer; even before the
wish was formed into _thought_. I could realize that the answer came
from the Guide, who was my teacher by adaptation. I could realize
that for every _real_ aspiration there is ever an answer; in fact that
the answer from within and above prompts the aspiration, the wish to
know. That there is a solution for every so-called “problem”; for,
in the final analysis, there _are_ no “problems”--except _states_ of
_non-perception_.

All this and a thousand times more of inward awakening came to me as I
grew in the perception of the Knowledge of the Spirit.


“THOSE WHO LOVE THEIR FELLOW-BEINGS”

I saw a countless multitude growing brighter, more resplendent,
as I was led nearer. Among them were those more radiant than the
others--greater, it seemed, in the scope and power of their spirits.

I recognized--not always from personal knowledge on Earth--some of
the individuals who were there, centers of groups of radiant ones,
those who, when in Earth life “loved their fellow men”; and who, by
word and deed had sought to overcome the errors and abuses heaped upon
humanity. Their battles with tongue and pen (no armaments or weapons
of war), their shining armors of Righteousness--were finally known and
appreciated by many minds (souls) on Earth.

One whom I had known from early childhood came toward me with the
group of his friends and relatives, whom I had also known. He greeted
me as he was ever wont to do when we both were in Earth-forms. Though
advanced in years before he left the form, he was ever youthful,
ever calm and peaceful; yet firm and forceful in his advocacy of his
convictions of Human Brotherhood, and the final triumph of the spirit
over errors of human conditions in Time and Sense. By those who knew
his life and works he was considered a “leading and inspiring mind”; to
many he was a Prophet of the “Good time Coming.” How my spirit thrilled
with this meeting with him and his household and the group of friends
who were with him. One question I had often asked in mind, or had
wished to know concerning it:

Had he--this friend with whom I was then conversing, met in spirit
states the one who in a distant land of Earth had said: “---- ---- is
the greatest man America ever possessed”?

The one who said this to a prominent writer was also a “lover of his
fellow men,” but the two had never met in Earth life. The question
was not asked; before it could be formulated the answer came: “Yes,
we have met and often confer together. In all _essentials_ relating
to the _Supreme Realities_ of life and the growth of human beings
toward perfection through knowledge of Divine Truth and Love we are in
perfect accord.” I then perceived from among that goodly company the
one approaching of whom we had been speaking; our thought of him and
our appreciation had attracted him to us. Long and earnestly they spoke
of the things _to be_ when the children of Earth shall be set free from
the shadows caused by ignorance. I more and more perceived some of
the personalities of those illuminated ones, and more than once was I
surprised that those who had been of such widely different conditions,
environment, education, habits of mind, and, one would think, opposite
spiritual states could be together!

The Presence aware that the surprise would exist, said:

“As you already know, differences of birth, nationality, outward rank
and even of education, are not _real_ differences in spirit. These
are (and were) all lovers of their kind--lovers of Peace through
Enlightenment and Righteousness, and they are now, as they were when on
Earth constantly seeking through interchange of high Ideals, to find
the best means for helping others--to lift the clouds of ignorance from
the minds of earth; even now one is within your vision whose presence
here will surprise you.” I saw a stately form and recognized the one
who, as the head of a great Ecclesiastical organization had in the
“Prayer for Peace” issued a short time before he had passed from his
Earth-form given the following significant sentence:

  “MAY THEY (THE NATIONS) REMOVE THE CAUSES OF WAR.”

As a lover of humanity, a promoter of Peace, he seemed to stand near
these shining ones, many of whom when on earth (and now) have never
recognized _any_ Ecclesiastical Authority. Of course, I knew that all
such lines, barriers, and human standards are removed--or rapidly
vanish--in spirit states among Enlightened minds. And that they
realize, as this one must have realized, that the Earthly “Office” and
all its outward symbols and adornments cannot continue in a realm where
the _real_ nature stands revealed--the nature of the spirit.

All these composing this radiant assemblage were intent on reaching
and for their good, acting upon the minds of those on Earth for the
“Promotion of Peace on Earth and Love to All.”

Alas and alas! “Those engaged in actual war--the war raging between
one-half the nations of the Earth that call themselves ‘enlightened’
cannot be reached until the leaders and rulers have learned the lesson
taught by bitter experience.” So the Presence said, and so I had
perceived, saddened by the thoughts of the awful human suffering that
must ensue.


THE SHADOWS OF THE CONFLICT

Then I was shown the dense Shadow--the awful darkness that seemed an
engulfing abyss: the scenes of the conflict now raging on Earth. That
which I saw (then just begun), seemed, however, more to represent the
spiritual and mental states of Rulers and Leaders than the physical
scenes of battles. I saw the bright spots where the ministrants of
mercy were rallying, regardless of nationality or “class,” to aid those
physically wounded, to breathe a word of comfort to those injured
mortally who were “passing on.”

Above the terrible scenes of battles I saw those in the “rank and file”
of the armies and navies who were so suddenly wrenched from their
bodies. Their first thoughts (as their last thoughts had been), were of
those loved ones from whom they were suddenly parted when ordered “to
the front.” They were aided to find the dear ones (alas where were the
“homes”? now desolate. Many of the families scattered and in deepest
suffering, great physical want, and greater grief.)

They tried, often without avail, to comfort and aid the dear ones,
their own states of mind and grief over the separation preventing them
from effectively ministering to their loved ones. They soon became
aware that the aid could not be material, that spiritual strength and
consolation must be from spiritual sources and that they might, if
themselves strong in spirit, move upon the minds of others in human
life to aid those dear to them.

It was a wonderful sight to behold the ministering spirits succoring,
comforting, instructing those thus suddenly thrust into spirit states;
none but those endowed with the Divine Gift of loving compassion--like
a Florence Nightingale or a Clara Barton--could so successfully aid
those spirits thus ruthlessly torn from their human ties and forms. It
is an awful sight! Yet the spirit “Rescuers” are there! The “Red Cross”
of the skies finds its way to those who need the help and guidance.

In a measure the Soldiers, all who must go to war on land or sea, are
better prepared for the sudden change than those hurled into spirit
life by “accident” of shipwreck or other disaster, or by volcanic or
earthquake shock. The Soldier _knows_ that he is to confront possible
and even probable physical death--and being thus prepared often is less
surprised and shocked when he finds himself “out of his body.” Yet,
wherever the need may be, the “strong helpers” are there: above every
scene of human sacrifice, whether Cataclysmic, “natural causes” or the
result of human ignorance and neglect, or the self-seeking aggression
of war, there are they--the dear ones, the strong ones, the saving ones!

All cannot be aided to at once perceive the new-found condition:
everything must depend on the degree of spiritual preparedness, which
is often greater among the humble and lowly--who have a line of simple
life, simple love, simple duty to follow than among the more complex
mental and moral states of the “leaders.” The real state, spiritually,
determines the “condition” of the spirit in spirit life.

Nor were the “clouded” and “shadowed” scenes of Earth life found alone
above the lines of battle. There were sometimes deeper shadows among
the scenes of “pleasure” and “mirth,” mocking splendor of wealth and
its opposite of want, squalor, misery, the _toll of human sacrifice
is not always in the “death” of the body_. There are vortices more
terrible than the volcano’s fiery breath or earthquake’s yawning mouth;
the palace often seemed more densely shadowed than the hovel; while the
dwelling, though a cottage, brightened with Love shone out like a star
of splendor.

“Spiritual knowledge, the unfoldment of the highest from within, this
alone can change the ‘shadowed states’ of Earth into brightness. Every
life must be reached; every mind touched and awakened by the spirit;
the ‘good’ that is within each must be brought forth.”


TURNING FOR RESPITE

From the storm-scenes of contending forces, from the darkness of
Spiritual night, from the uncertain states, like dim twilight, one
ever turns in spirit to the Beloved, to the groups of loved and
loving ones that constitute the “Home of the Spirit.” “Spiritual rest
is change,” respite from witnessing the unhappy conditions, the
shadows of spiritual states that one cannot at once remedy. “Rest” is
not idleness: communion, companionship, _working together for those
who can be aided_--this is rest. The “Home Group” ever intent upon
ministering wherever and whenever needed, afforded the respite sought.
Such memories of Earth-experiences as had been kept alive in the sacred
altar-flame of true affection and home ties; such interchange of Ideals
and experiences as the later years had brought; such knowledge of the
blending of the spirit and the mortal states, the guardianship and
ministration of the loved arisen ones over those in Earth-forms, this
was rest. Blessed respite; blessed communion; one would never be ready,
it would seem, to part with such companionship.

Nor _do_ we ever “part” with the truly loved. Whatever duties we must
perform for those in spirit or human states, _those most in accord,
those nearest and dearest are ever with us_ “whether in or out of the
body.”

Our human phrases, and even our usual thoughts seem superficial, weak
and puerile when endeavoring to describe the divine _realities_ of the
Spirit. We never “part”; we can never be “absent” from the Beloved. Yet
the shadows of human existence: “time and sense,” and outward “change”
and “circumstances” are upon those who make “the house of clay” the
limit of their mental and spiritual possessions.


REUNION WITH LOVERS OF “PEACE”

Returning again and often to the bright sphere composed of “those
who love their fellow-beings”; from among them came those whom I
had known--with whom I had, as a humble worker labored for some
cause--_this time_ a few, especially two or three last seen in Earth
life at the Hague Peace Conference (1907). “Ah, how well we then
knew--as well as even now when the conflict rages--that the nations
(44 in number) were not all, indeed but few of them, seeking for
‘peace’; the permanent establishment of a Court of Arbitration for the
world! Each was there to ‘test’ the others; nearly all endeavoring
to gain some concession from the others to aid in their own selfish
future aggressions”! Such was the thought flashed from my friend of
the brilliant mind and noble heart who came with others to greet me.
And the dear lady who took me in her arms and kissed me when we parted
there at the Hague even as she did now, said: “We meet again, and here
there is sweet Peace--but O, the horrors of the war! And _you, you will
return to Earth for further work_.” She gave me her blessing with such
love as her grand soul can give.

The other one, he of the brilliant mind and facile pen, he of the
awakened and illumined spirit, said: “Yes, you will return to Earth
for added work (even after those many, many years of work already
performed), we will aid you, we all _must_ aid those who are working
to enlighten the minds, to awaken the spirits of those immured in the
materialism of Earth. How dense we all are until awakened! Sorrow
smites us, then the fountains of the Soul come forth; our spiritual
Guardians can help us then, and we begin to know. That was my case on
Earth. Now I realize how little I _did_ know, but I am grateful that I
was not an entire stranger to this realm of spirits, and there is all
eternity in which to grow in knowledge.”


MESSAGES FROM FRIENDS

From those whom I met in their homes of peace and love and work were
many messages to be delivered _in person_ by me to the dear ones on
Earth--messages that might be of interest here to show that true
affection and personal watchfulness are more manifested from the
spirit side of life than people know; even those accustomed to spirit
communion and ministration do not realize all that they might of this
nearness.

These messages are too intimate and sacred, however, to be given here,
and they breathe all the fervor of the _real life and love of the
Spirit_. I shall communicate them to those to whom they were sent.


THE SPIRIT-HOME OF THE CHILDREN

But O, the Children! the Children! What can one write or say? What
words adapted to tongue or pen can convey an adequate idea of the
spheres in which my spirit has often met those darlings of both worlds?
My own baby girl, who passed on many, many years ago and who has grown
to womanhood in her spirit state, has ever been my constant companion,
as a guardian spirit, during my busy hours of Earth life, as a _pilot_
and gentle helper when through sleep or trance-control my spirit was
set free to join her and visit the realm of the children.

These “little ones” are often wiser in knowledge of the spirit than
mortals of more mature years.

Blessings ever attend the presence of a babe in the home of love on
Earth and, in the highest sense, doubly blessed are those who having
possessed such a treasure know that if the babe passes from mortal
sight the _treasure is still theirs_, a babe--growing among the flowers
of the gardens of spiritual life is as

  “A light within a light,
  A joy ensphered in joy.”

Such a child becomes a sacred guardian unto the household.

It was indeed an enchanted realm into which we now entered. Although
visited many times during many years it now seemed more real, more
beautiful, more perfect.

As far as vision (perception) could reach--as vast as the mind could
compass or conceive there were children, children everywhere! Sporting
in the light of their own brightness and joy; they were embodied
sunbeams, weaving rainbow tinted thoughts into forms of beauty;
flowers, flowers everywhere; songs of birds and child voices mingling
with murmuring waters amid scenes of rarest beauty. Ah, the spirit
realm of childhood; the playgrounds of the skies!

Not only children, but “those of larger growth,” parents, teachers,
friends were there to teach, to aid, _and to grow_ in greater knowledge
and usefulness. Sometimes the children are the teachers to those older
in Earth years.

Isles of light, radiant with flowers and verdure and surrounded by
iridescent waters! Could one ever picture the thought-forms of these
lovely ones?

“Let us make rainbows,” exclaimed one fairylike child among a group
of playmates, some of whom were new in that realm. A questioning look
came into the eyes of those addressed: “How can we _make_ rainbows?” A
child-teacher drew near and said: “I will show you; come with me.”

The five or six eagerly responded.

“Take hold of hands,” the Teacher said, “and have no fear, there can be
no rainbows without clouds and light.”

I was permitted to follow, with sight or ken, as the Teacher led them
away, away from those enchanting scenes to where the clouds and shadows
hung dark beneath and around them.

They had drawn near a large city of Earth.

“O let’s not go here,” said one, “it seems so dark.” But the others
urged her on.

Soon one little boy among them said, “See, there is a little girl. She
is cold and is crying on the street; she is hungry too, let us help
her.” They drew near, and the child, feeling comforted (she knew not
why), sobbed more softly and prayed:

“O, my mamma in heaven, _can you hear_ me and send help to brother and
baby--you loved us so?” Then the spirit children saw a man approaching;
they fairly _pushed him toward the weeping child_ to whom he spoke
kindly asking:

“What is the matter my little girl?”

“O, sir, my mother is dead, and my brother is sick and the baby has
nothing to eat. We’re so cold in that room.”

“Can you take me there?” asked the man, and he held out his hand for
her to lead him. She clasped two of his fingers with her tiny hand and
led him through the dark streets to a narrow alley and up some dark,
creaking stairs. Yes, there was little brother crying for “mamma,” for
“sister,” and the baby asleep but sobbing.

The kind-hearted man saw everything at a glance.

“Don’t cry, my little man. I’ll be back in a few minutes. Take care of
them, little lady, until I come.”

The spirit children had helped, and helped; they saw the spirit mother
looking very sad, bending above the baby, and then above “little
brother.” They also tried to comfort him and help the little girl.
They saw the man go to a telephone and talk with some one and they
could see and feel the light of kindness with which he spoke and in
which the answers came. How quick he was! He found a place to buy food.
He came back soon, built a fire, warmed some milk, gave the other
children something to ease the worst pangs of hunger. Presently a woman
came--such a kind heart! She too worked fast. She gave the baby some
food prepared in the milk, helped the little sick boy, who was more in
need of bodily comfort than anything else, soothed and fed the little
girl who, little mother that she was, at once aided in caring for the
baby.

How the spirit children worked too! They had made the man see and hear
the little girl, had aided in guiding her to the dismal room called
“home”, had helped him find the telephone and the place to buy the
food, had helped the woman to find the place, had helped take care of
the children and comfort them and the spirit mother.

“Now,” said the Teacher, “we will return to our beautiful home.”

One little boy whispered to the Teacher: “I know there are more
children and people who need help down there. Can we go again and help?”

“Whenever you choose to make rainbows or flowers or other beautiful
things we will go.” And they rejoiced.

Lo! As they passed through the encompassing clouds circles of
rainbows o’er-spanned them and paths of rainbows guided them to their
spirit-home. When the other children saw them approaching they sang,
“O, the rainbows! O, the rainbows! When you dry the tears of sorrow and
help those in need you make rainbows.”

All spirit children are taught to visit the scenes of Earth life. The
home and its loved ones, where they are missed, ever attracts them and
they are taught to minister, to aid, to guard. If they _had_ no home on
Earth they try to aid those who still remain in the “orphan” realm of
human life.


THERE ARE NO ORPHANS IN THE SPIRIT REALM:

Mothers whose babes are in the Earth life help to care for those
“little waifs” thrust out of human existence--and for spirit children
that pine for Mother love.

Children whose parents are in Earth life are taught to aid and comfort
those in the home as well as those who have no home. Especially
cared for are the little “waifs” who were not welcome in the
Earth-forms--even those who have not seen the light of earthly day--not
always from among the poor of earth were they driven, especially those
abandoned by the unfortunate or misguided mothers. These and all are
“mothered” by the spirits whose hearts are filled with mother love.
And here it is well to note that not _all_ who are earthly parents are
_real_ fathers and mothers, and many who are childless--work night and
day in the “asylums” on earth to save some neglected, forsaken, child.
These are real parents.

What greater “punishment” could there be than when the human mother
has turned away from the sacred gift of motherhood, she meets, on
entering spirit life, her own neglected babe who welcomes her there?
“Coals of fire!”

It is not always to visit scenes of sorrow and want that the spirit
children are led to the earth: Houses, schools, playgrounds,
“_Lyceums_,” where the little ones of earth are taught, places of
entertainment and amusement where they play, and sing, and grow; there
also are the playmates of the spirit-home mingling with them and
endeavoring to impress them with thoughts and deeds of loving kindness
with things of beauty.

Returning to the Realm of Spirit Children one finds such respite from
care, such constant sources of happiness, such fashioning of forms of
beauty. Oh, that all could know! Knowledge of all this has reached but
few on Earth; yet more and more will human minds be pervaded by the
methods of the Skies.

Those who have given new methods of “Education” to the people of Earth
have been inspired somewhat by these Teachers in spirit states.
Froebel, whose “Kindergarden” system was intended for “children” of all
ages; A. J. Davis, whose “Progressive Lyceum” system was not intended
_exclusively_ for Sunday training of _children_ but in its inception
was a reproduction of the “teaching” in spirit states (as far as his
mind and inspiration could reproduce such beautiful methods.) Even if
one could give in human language the form of teaching (or methods) of
the spirit states, the law of _adaptation_ prevailing in the higher
realms might not always be available in human life.

How beautiful to know that growth--and the best opportunity for the
highest unfoldment with most loving teachers and Guardians surround the
darlings who have passed from the households of Earth.

Here then, O human parents, O sisters and brothers, you who miss the
bodily presence of the one who occupied the “vacant chair,” you who
feel the _pervading sense of the absence_ of the loved children: here
they are; bringing to your very homes and hearts, could you but realize
it, the love, the knowledge, the wisdom, the beauty of the skies.


BEAUTY AND HARMONY

Ever from childhood through all the years of Earth life beautiful
scenery, tints of earth and sky, music, in fact all beautiful sights
and sounds, strongly appealed to me. In the spirit states I noted
that harmonious colors, beautiful scenes, and often exquisite music
greeted me as we approached groups of radiant atmospheres, encircling
spheres of light; such exquisite sounds of harmony as one dreams must
be the “Music of the Spheres.” On approaching nearer I would perceive
that the _tints_ and _sounds_, as they reached me, were the radiations
of thought, the spirit _activities_ of these thus ensphered who have
attained real harmony. They were not MAKING beautiful colors and music,
but LIVING them.


THE “ARTISTS”

Perhaps I have elsewhere written that music in spirit states does not
always accompany the one who was a “musician” on Earth; and harmony
of color, beautiful surroundings may ensphere one who never thought
of being an “artist.” Their lives have been interwoven with sweet and
loving thoughts and deeds.

That which would have been a source of surprise had I not previously
known it was that “artists,” “painters,” “sculptors,” “musicians,”
and even some of the “poets,” known by those names on Earth, are not
fashioning landscapes, portraits, or carving from stone the images of
lovely forms, nor are they fashioning or weaving into music or verse
some classical or other theme: All of those who were “geniuses,” all
who were Idealists, _true lovers of their kind_, find here (in spirit
life) their highest happiness in _ministering to others_, in moving
upon the minds, hearts, spirits of those to whom they are adapted,
until they perceive the _Soul of Beauty_ and fashion it into their
lives. The “Masters” of art: painters, sculptors, builders, construct
their temples and adorn them with _lives_--the true images of beauty in
thought, feeling, aspiration, achievement.

Music is _perfect Harmony_, of one life with itself and others, of many
lives in all their highest purposes. Such are the creators of the
“Symphonies of the Skies.”

Those who had “Talent,” hoping to achieve the works of “Genius”--
sometime, somewhere, are still intent on fashioning reproductions or
imitations of natural objects and scenes, or impressing art students of
Earth to produce such effects. But these are not the creators--“every
‘creation’ is from within and must _live_,” said my Teacher.

One wishes for a magic pen, or for a perfect Gift of Expression, to
convey in language the subtle consciousness of the Beauty and Harmony
that meet one as one is led to the “_Atmospheres_” of some of the


“CREATORS OF BEAUTY.”

More wonderful than all else was the knowledge that many who had never
painted, carved, builded, or traced the “score” of musical composition
were surrounded and pervaded by such ineffable loveliness that one
could _weep for very joy_ on perceiving it.

“Art is Great, but the perception of the Soul of Beauty is _Life!
Love!_” said the Guide.

One perceives in such states as were there revealed that the true
“artist” has not always been known among his fellow human beings,
moving upon the world of thought, influencing other lives by the beauty
and harmony of their own natures, these seem, when viewed from the
spirit, to constitute the real artists.

“Is not the Temple of the Soul a Living Temple, is not the art of
molding the mind to perform the mandates of the spirit more to be
sought for and greater when attained?” “Eternal in the Heavens” are the
Temples “not made with hands,” so said the Guide and so I perceived
more and more clearly.

In marked contrast to the foregoing were the thought-forms surrounding
some of those who had been “artists” on Earth: broken lines,
inharmonious colors, discords, sharp and jagged corners--all portraying
disturbed conditions of the unruly thoughts and impulses that had
possessed them in Earth life.

I had interesting glimpses of those who were “_working with
themselves_.” One who was considered “eminent” in art on Earth was
cutting, carving, breathing upon an _image of himself_.

“What _is_ he doing?” I exclaimed, now really surprised.

“Removing the angularities and errors of his own nature: jealousy of
other artists, the deepest scar; selfish love of human praise--that
overweening desire for adulation; unwillingness to accord to others
appreciation of their true merits,” replied the Guide.

Later, I saw that artist self-renovated, and one whom he had envied
derided and scorned, when both were in Earth life, _working together_,
producing, through artist minds on earth, works that possess the merits
of both with the added _tone_ of harmony; the strength of one being
merged in perfect accord with the grace and loveliness of the other,
blending in wondrous works of Beauty.

This was a wonderful lesson, serving to illustrate that at first,
and possibly for some time after entering spirit life one’s chief
occupation is--or should be--removing one’s own limitations; but this
cannot _begin_ until one is aware that one _has_ the imperfections; to
be conscious of one’s faults is half the remedy.

Bodily imperfections, infirmities and disease, unless retained
psychologically by having constantly encroached upon the mind, or
deformities that are dwelt upon mentally, are dropped with the body;
but such _infirmities of mind_ as are born of an undue “egotism,” undue
_self love_, (the capital “I” around which the universe revolves),
must be removed before the spirit can enter upon _real work_. As
with artists so with those eminent in science or any department of
human thought and endeavor; the truly Great are ever the most humble;
realizing that however much they know, and however clearly they can
_think_ “the universe is full of things we do not know”; as one of the
great ones aptly said.

I had met one--a brilliant mind--who in Earth life was gifted in many
ways, chiefly mathematics. He had breakfasted on billions, dined on
duodecillions, supped on sepdecillions, he wrote to the rythm of
“logarithms,” and worshiped at the shrine of the calculus! I tried
to imagine what he might be doing. Perhaps he was measuring the
immeasurable or calculating the uncalculable! I saw him! Where was his
Observatory? Where his maps, charts, instruments? The answer swept over
and through me with a great thrill.

The knowledge that comes to the spirit is instantaneous--if one is
ready--how can one use even the most perfect instrumentalities and
methods when time and space are eliminated? _Truth is perceived_: in
homely phrase “No ladder for the air men,” “no mathematics for the
soul!” I never could have imagined how quickly he would “perceive.” He
had attained the real knowledge of wisdom and love.

The poet-prophets of the world, those who have sung in immortal verse
the Truths of the Skies: Truths of Freedom, Justice, Love, Spiritual
Exaltation, moved by the _theme_ of their songs, using their art as a
setting to the Jewel of Truth, these endowed ones knew that without
the inspiring _theme_, the words, the rythm would be empty bubbles,
glittering nothings.


ALL ARE TEACHERS

All exalted lives (spiritually) moving and living in similar planes of
thought--born of their spiritual states--are attracted to each other
in spirit life for the interchange of perceptions of Truth and bearing
forward the work of illuminating such minds on Earth _as are ready_ to
receive along the lines of human progress and unfoldment, imparting
“the things they are ready to know.”

Spirits, the wise ones, do not make the mistake, as many do in human
life, of trying to _force_ upon the minds of those whom they teach the
truths or knowledge for which those minds are not prepared: “Arithmetic
first, after that geometry and higher mathematics,” is the rule in
Earth schools. So in the instruction by spirit Teachers there is
_adaptation_ to the pupil not only of the Teacher but of that which
is to be taught. There are “ministering spirits” adapted to every
condition.

I could but marvel at the wonderful workings of these principles that
govern the influence of “mind upon mind”--really _spirit upon spirit_;
so much more complex yet more potent than the “forces” and operation
of the “laws” of the material universe--“laws” so little understood,
“forces” so dimly perceived.

“Most of the people on the Earth-plane know so little even concerning
the things and forces most intimately connected with their bodily
existence: the sunshine, the air they breathe, the earth beneath them,
the sea, and the heavens of _Stars_; we must not wonder over-much that
they know little or nothing of this inner, though more real, realm of
Spirit.”

This was from the Guide. Anticipating the question that was welling up
from the mind: “Why do not those on Earth know more of these spirit
states, more of their own conditions spiritually?” The answer had
already been given, and as we passed on the Teacher said:

“Growth, unfoldment, waiting, working.”


CO-WORKERS

Among the groups and assemblages whom I met and with whom I was most
frequently in communication during this surpassing sojourn were the
arisen co-workers in the “_Movement_” with which my life-work has been
most identified:


“SPIRITUALISM”

In the work of a life-time as a chosen “instrument” to bear “glad
tidings,” to promote the knowledge of spirit existence here and beyond
the change called death, and the ministration from and communion with
the arisen ones, I had met in outward existence every leading mind and
every worker (medium) known in the Spiritualistic movement.

We were always friends, always co-workers, sisters and brothers bearing
forward a great Truth. Very frequently during this wonderful visit in
the realm of spirit I saw them--either alone or in smaller or larger
groups, renewing the companionship that had been so beautiful and
delightful when we had worked side by side in human forms.

In your memory, dear reader, or in your reading scan the list of names
who were first known as “Investigators” then as “Spiritualists,” and
the names of those known as MEDIUMS (there were no “Psychics” in those
days.) I knew and loved them all. I met them all. Each one in spirit
life is still engaged in imparting this knowledge--most important
of all that human beings can receive--concerning Spiritual Truth.
Existence, life, love, work beyond the change called death;


SPIRITUALISM AS A MOVEMENT,

I had ever been instructed by my Guides, was given to the world when
_needed_, and when there were those upon the Earth who were ready, when
the “ages were ripe” for its coming.

In spirit states of Earth and in the realms far beyond were those who
knew the “day and hour” had come for “moving upon the minds of Earth
with this new illumination.”

There was from the “smallest” to the “greatest,” from the seemingly
“least” to the “most important” of the manifestations a concerted
action. The “rappings” at Hydesville were no “accident,” the visions of
Clairvoyant and seer, the writings and trance utterances (phenomenal)
were all a part of this _Stupendous Movement_. All, all, under guidance
of those wise Spirits who knew what the people of the world needed and
gave it to them according to their needs.

Necessarily many extremists and “imitators” would be attracted to the
subject--like driftwood following or borne upon every new current of
thought--but it is safe to say that Spiritualism during the sixty-seven
years since the “Rochester Knockings” has attracted the attention
of more eminent minds in every department of human research (and
convinced them too) and given knowledge and consolation to a greater
number of people than any movement or system of knowledge in ancient
or modern times. With those who are willing and anxious to be classed
as Spiritualists it is _knowledge_ of life beyond death--and of the
presence and ministration of the beloved arisen ones.

So spoke my Guide to me and to the group of co-workers who had come
forward to meet and greet me. How young and beautiful they were. Always
I had noted in earth life how beautiful the dear ones are when one has
been for a time absent from them--and here, in this realm of perpetual
youth, with the freedom from human pain and cares that some of them had
so bravely borne, I could but note the beauty that is theirs.

In the interchange of thought and experiences with these arisen
co-workers I could readily understand that being brought into direct
personal relationship with their “Guides,” “Inspirers,” “Teachers,”
“helpers” and with each other, they had become more and more aware of
the true meaning and nature of the gifts (mediumship) that were theirs
when in the form, and they realized that even those “Inspirers” and
“Teachers” were also the instruments of higher and wiser Spirits.

One sister worker said to me “I always wanted to _see_ my Guides, as
you did, but I could not, for the gift of spirit vision was not mine.
Now I understand what it means to ‘see with the eyes of the Spirit’ and
I am satisfied.”

Those who had been my most intimate co-workers had many things to tell
me of their “awakening” into added perception of spiritual things and
of the work assigned them in their new state of existence; still
ministering, still trying to lift the veil, mostly of ignorance, that
divides mortals from their arisen ones. Many were the loving messages
sent to friends and loved _Companions_ still in Earth life.

“Tell them you _saw_ me _here_ in spirit life, and I am ever near them,
in response to a thought, or wish or especially a _need_, guiding,
guarding, aiding.”

It seems better to receive a message from one who has “been there,” who
has actually _seen_ and _conversed_ with one’s friends “face to face”
and “spirit to spirit.” So, in the treasure house of my spirit are
stored those messages to be given whenever I meet any of those loved
ones in human life to whom I was so fortunate as to bear a message. It
is to them alone that the message for them can be given.

The transcendent brightness and spiritual beauty of that assemblage of
spirits--from guardian spirits of relatives and friends to the wisest
and most advanced that one could see, are beyond my power of language
to express.

There is no formal taking of one’s “place” or “position,” no
ceremonious “assigning” of “duty” or “work,” but in groups and larger
companies, as well as in personal ministrations, a mutual understanding
of purpose, according to adaptation. If a united or concerted action
upon earth-minds for any given purpose is needed it is readily
perceived and entered upon by all who are in accord, and is performed
by such methods as enlightened spirits readily understand.

Human minds are better prepared to comprehend the methods of spirit
communicating with spirit since “wireless telegraphy” and other recent
scientific wonders have been achieved, not that the _process_ is
similar in any degree, but being prepared for the new revealments in
science also prepares impartial minds to know of the more subtle powers
of the spirit. “Volition” in its highest analysis is the one attribute
of the spirit by which other spirits know--through perception, what
is being imparted, _but_ there must ever be _accord_, _sympathy_,
_adaptation_.

From some of those who had been my friends in my early life and who
were “leading minds” in this cause, and in other subjects of human
interest, I received many thoughts and suggestions concerning
the present status of the “movement” (Spiritualism) and what
they now think of the possible and desirable results of “united
action,”--“organization” for the work and the workers. These and many
other themes must be left for opportunity, time and strength to reveal,
as my work goes on in human life.

One notes the same minds and spirits in many assemblages of the
different branches of all purposes for aiding humanity. Even as when on
earth the “Pioneers” in “Anti-slavery,” “Equal Suffrage,” “Temperance,”
were the same staunch body of men and women, ready now as then to
respond to the call to give a voice to Truth. In the assemblies for
promoting “peace” by “those who love their fellow men,” there was the
universal sentiment: “Peace must be born of Justice and Justice can
only come by true Fraternity.”

  “My country is the world;
  My countrymen all mankind.”

This is the standard extending to include “All Souls.”

“It seems to inhere in the very nature of _human life_ that men will
_fight_ for: (1) Personal liberty: freedom from physical bondage and
involuntary servitude; (2) For defence of those nearest and dearest
enshrined in the ‘home’; (3) For country when it represents the ‘home’
and those ‘Ideals’ to which the heart ever clings.”

To “remove the _Causes_ of War” all selfish seeking, all aggression by
any nation upon the rights of others must cease, “and this must come by
growth, by enlightenment in the cardinal principles of justice, love
and truth.” These and many other thoughts were given forth in that
assembly.

[A]A great wave of uprising among the _women_ of all nations was
predicted in favor of conditions that would “make for peace” leading
to united efforts between the most enlightened men and women of all
nations to the establishment of “Peace born of Right--Not Might.” The
Peace foretold by poets and sages of all time. Yet all agree in that
wonderful assemblage, that “treaties of Peace” are without avail unless
the moral force of the nations--among their leaders, rulers and a
majority of their people--is sufficient to dominate; and make just
treaties _binding_.

As individuals are now expected to adjust their difference in Courts
of Law (often misnamed justice), and it is the aim of a majority of
citizens not to encroach upon the real rights of others, so the time
_must_ come when nations will agree to a similar method in adjusting
possible differences that may arise; and this much _can_ come even
before the real millenium of “Peace on Earth and Love to all Mankind.”
There must be some other International Tribunal than the battlefield!
Earth, sea, and air, _must_ not be held in bondage for physical carnage!

In the final “Day of Peace” even Peace Tribunals will not be needed,
but now--“may Angels speed the Day of Peace born of Justice.”

In most instances I could tell the personality, or human name, of each
one giving forth a particular thought, and all were in accord. Alas, I
could also perceive that they saw, in viewing the conditions of Earth
that “the end is not yet.”

I cannot mar this wonderful visit--this respite from pain and cares of
Earth by dwelling too long among the shadows, warclouds and darkened
states of Earth life. As beyond the storm clouds of Earth’s nearest
material atmosphere the sun always shines glorious and with resplendent
brightness, so beyond the horrors of war the desolation and ravagement
of nations incident thereto, beyond the storms, earthquakes, and
cataclysmic throes of nature, the Sun of Spiritual Hope and Love ever
shines surpassing fair, and all the Angelic and Spiritual Hosts are
ready to aid, strengthen, succor the spirits enshrouded in time and
earth conditions.


THE RETURN

More and more frequent were the summons and the visits to my mortal
body, to reimbue, as it was now found possible, with my spirit, to
restore with the personal presence, the body within which the vital
spark had been kept alive by blessed Guardian Spirits and devoted
friends on Earth.

More and more the spirit “Home friends,” the Best Beloved, and the
Guides encouraged the thought of my return to fulfill the appointed
work on Earth. I had prayed to be allowed to remain, to let the body
pass; but now, gradually it is true, the idea of resuming the human
habiliments, the garb of the material body, became less repugnant, and
I finally freely said: “Yes, I will go as that is the appointed way.”

Have you, dear friend, who may be reading these imperfect fragments
of a _perfect experience_, (as any narrative must be) ever visited
some fair garden, some sequestered home of dearest friends, a place
radiant with beauty and enchantment; where there were flowers massed
in rarest combinations of color and fragrance, fountains murmuring
in answer to the summer winds, music, such as seemed a part of the
enrapturing scene; have you enjoyed this with the chosen friends that
alone could make the scene sacred, the Best Beloved? And have you known
the reluctance to return to the “outer world” of daily routine of care,
perhaps of pain? Ah, then you know in the _smallest degree_ what it
meant to me to return to my bodily form!

Yet even now the soul of all that was mine in that wonderful,
surpassing state is ever with me; nor will it again be absent from
me--since it is enfolded in my very being. I am more complete now, even
in the body which ever divides us from the Soul of Life.

“You will be with us again and often,” they said; the Guide said no
formal “farewells,” no “leavetaking,” but everywhere from every Dear
and Blessed one “Blessings, Peace, Joy, and Love go with you into added
Strength and Work.”

And here I am: ready to help the body to grow stronger, and to
_willingly, joyfully_, in the future as in the past, perform the work
assigned me--_until--they--call--me--Home_.

                                                    CORA L. V. RICHMOND.




An Added Word or Two


The possibility of the spirit “leaving the body” for a time and then
returning and resuming its usual activities has been demonstrated
many times. In some instances the temporary separation was caused by
accident, illness, states of coma induced by anesthetics, trance,
either of spirit control or hypnosis, and sometimes a _voluntary
absence_ or activity not suspending the vital functions of the body. It
is also undoubtedly true that during sleep--especially that restful,
dreamless sleep that betokens a normal state of mind and body, the
spirit avails itself of the opportunity of restoration by spiritual
methods and activities not possible while urging the body to do its
bidding. Not only Spiritualists, Psychologists and Psychic Research
students have well authenticated cases of the undoubted activity of the
Spirit apart from the body, but many prominent physicians have recorded
their experiences with patients whose bodily functions were suspended,
even to seeming dissolution, and upon the unexpected resuscitation of
the subject there would be a vivid account of active experiences in
spirit--usually pleasant scenes and meetings with friends long passed
into spirit life. These visits to “heaven” would be sometimes tinged
with the religious bias of the subject, but this is not strange in view
of the fact that _spirit states are conditions of the mind_ and spirit
experiencing them.

Among the most familiar popular illustrations are those narrated
by Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, especially by “Gail Hamilton” who,
being thought “dead” returned to her body, narrated to her pastor
the experiences she had during that period of suspended animation
and resumed her pen, remaining in mortal life a considerable time
thereafter.

Although not usual, this class of experiences is not so _unusual_ as
many imagine or assert. And the writer having been from childhood
accustomed to the “other state” (“Inner,” “higher”), of consciousness
can distinctly trace her experiences in that inner realm as forming
fully a third if not one-half of her life-experiences.

The “realm of spirit” in which she has so often found herself a
participant is, therefore, no unfamiliar realm; in fact if called
upon to decide _which state_ is the _reality--the life_, she would
unhesitatingly say: the _inner_ state, the _super-mundane_ realm.

Of the many eminent men of Science in both Europe and America who have
come to a knowledge of the truths of Spirit existence, continuance of
life after transition,--and the writer has known them all personally,
except the one she is about to mention,--probably Sir Oliver Lodge
has approached the subject of “psychic Research” (Spiritualism) with
a mind the _best prepared_ to receive (perceive) Spiritual Truth. I
say this with the utmost reverence and admiration for the long list
of names--eminent alike in their personal qualities and scientific
attainments, whose lives have been made brighter by a knowledge of
demonstrated future existence and a belief in the Immortality of the
Soul. Shall I name some of them? Hare, Mapes, Denton, Wallace, Crookes,
Varley, Zollner, Flammarion--the list is almost endless.

Sir Oliver Lodge has not only recently, and very publicly, announced
his full belief (knowledge) of continued personal existence beyond the
change called death, but the possibility of communion with those “gone
before” and the certainty that he had personal evidence beyond cavil
or doubt, proofs indubitable, of the presence of and communication
with his particular friends, _but_--and this is the point I wish
to emphasize--in his earlier utterances on this subject he said
in effect: “When I become aware that the human spirit while still
animating the body, or not released by death, has _such surpassing
powers_, ‘telepathy,’ ‘voluntary action’ _apart from the body_, showing
conclusively that the activities of the mind _are not_ dependent
upon the physical organism--I concluded there _must_ be evidence to
show that the spirit _can_ and does survive the body.” This and much
more was in his published statements concerning his investigations
in connection with Psychic Research--showing that he approached the
subject not only from the “effect to cause” line of usual scientific
investigation, but had already in his quickened perception the
vivification of a-priori knowledge leading from “_cause to effect_.”

One would like to accumulate and set down in condensed manner all the
available evidences of “absence from the body”--of which the writer has
a large and increasing store, but this writing is more distinctly in
the form of a message for this particular time.

With our own “other world” within and about us, moving “like wings of
light on dark and stormy air,” with such unused, wonderful powers, what
wonder that one having partaken of the bounties of that inner realm
longs to awaken the “sleeping” spirits of those in human life--or, more
correctly speaking, tear aside the veil and show how wonderful are the
dormant powers within each person: Soul-powers more active, perhaps,
than any are aware! Who can tell, until the film of mental blindness is
removed, how great may be the works accomplished by the spirit when the
body sleeps, when one is “absent minded,” or when _thinking intently_
of a particular friend, one finds at that very day and hour the friend
had “passed away”?

It is of the “Substance that dreams are made” that we shall ultimately
find our divinest realities, _our very lives_ are fashioned.

This narrative of “experiences while out of my body” is only a prelude
to those vaster heights, those more inner scenes, that I hope sometime
to be able to record: The Symphony is Life itself whose theme of Love
is Endless, Endless, Endless.

                                                         --_The Author._

[Illustration]




FOOTNOTE:

[A] This was before the Woman’s “Peace Congress” had been thought of by
Earth minds.




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74135 ***
